-2 -
facts approached these families and brought them life-saving aid
into their homes. These facts are known to every impartial
Jew acquainted with the local conditions and can be verified by
examination of the details which will be submitted here if required.
For the Pesach holidays alone, this Committee distributed
more than 25,000 Austrian shillings; more than half of this
amount was being raised in Vienna itself within the small circle
of members of the Committee; the rest came from Czecho-Slovakia.
But the total sum which was given to this Committee and taken from
the general assistance funds of the "kultusgemeinde" amounted to
only 300 shillings.
However, the Committee, by approaching persons with whom
it is intimately acquainted, has raised on the whole a sum of
50,000 Austrian shillings. It has also succeeded in intervening
between the Authorities in numerous cases without having had the
least material aid from official circles.
A written account of these proceedings cannot - as it is
evident - be given, but the members of the Committee can be abso-
lutely trusted, as every local examination of the facts will prove.
In addition to this, we have to face the tragic problem of
The Burgenland Refugees, the full burden of which falls upon the
Committee.
The Jews of the Burgenland, mostly families settled there
since centuries and distinguished by their conservative conduct,
numbering about 3,000, were - as is sufficiently known - by means
of tortures unheard of, compelled to charge themselves in a written
statement with the commitment of different crimes. On the ground
of these extorted protocols, their property was confiscated and
they themselves driven out from the country.
One part of these Jews was deprived of all means, and
driven to different frontiers - Czecho-Slovakia, Hungary and
Jugo-Slavia. Among them, hunted in herds, the oldest victim was
83 years, the youngest 3 weeks old. Among them were families who
once possessed more than £100.000, and have to-day not a single
penny left.
In Czecho-Slovakia alone, there are more than fifty of
these people driven out and now hidden in different families, as
they are there illegally without knowledge of the Authorities.
Should the Authorities be informed of this state of affairs, they
will be brought back to the Austrian frontier and the tragedy of
persecution will start again.